This is Senator Estes-Keefe over of the Senate Crime Committee.
This is a special crime report to we the people, given us a rundown on what's been done by the American people.
Ladies and gentlemen, in just a few seconds, a very brave American woman is going to talk to you.
I know this lady. She gave us a great deal of valuable information to our committee.
She is behind the scene tonight because she fears underworld revenge against herself, her husband, her children, and her little business.
She is real and what she says is real, and I hope that you will listen to her.
I was afraid to come here tonight, but I did come.
A man met me at a certain corner of a certain city at exactly noon yesterday.
I knew his license number and the password from we the people.
I'm one of many people who gave secret evidence to the Crime Committee.
And since those hearing, I have been threatened.
I'm afraid there was a lot of noise, big stories in the paper, but now I'm worried. Everybody's forgetting.
No way the people haven't forgotten.
Tonight for a very brave lady behind a screen, for the hundreds of silent and secret witnesses in cities from coast to coast, we the people has an answer.
Keyfauver plus 60 days, a nationwide survey with senators Keyfauver Toby and O'Connor, and America's greatest crime fighters all right now on We the People.
Tonight the Goal Poil Company and your neighborhood Goal Dealers present, along with the Oscar Bradley Orchestra, a special We The People report in the public service.
A special no-hold-barred survey on just what the cities and states of America have done and haven't done since the Senate Crime Committee hearing shocked the nation.
And here's your host for Goal Poil, compiler of the crime report. Dan Steemor.
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Tonight we have a coast to coast crime survey of Keyfauver plus 60 days.
What America has done to fight the mobs, the syndicate, the pot-bellied well-tailored and manicured secret empire of graft and collusion, laid bare just a few months ago by the Senate Crime Committee.
It's a report on crime for you by We the People reporters. They won't like it along the strip just north of Chicago where the syndicate has been running a big wheel, a million dollar wheel called Rouse Place.
And I don't think they're going to like it in certain plush back rooms in a parish down in Louisiana where the heat isn't off because it never really was on.
They won't like it in some secret hideout in Dallas, Texas where a Keyfauver witness was a bombing victim just this last week.
Wherever they are tonight and I must confess that with the aid of these gentlemen from the United States Senate, we know where many of them are.
The big and little men of crime won't like any of this because honest citizens have put their lives in jeopardy to make sure they don't like it.
Honest citizens like the lady behind this screen.
I won't stop. I know big crime in my city. I know the so-called respectable citizens behind it are won't stop.
The Senator from Tennessee. They don't like what he says either.
All the work our Senate crime committee has done wasn't for nothing.
But what it isn't the duty of the crime committee to try to send these hoodlums to jail.
We try to expose the pattern and give some facts. But the people I'm sure of America will see about the rest.
And the underworld hates this man. He's a crime fighter from Lush Miami. They're not going to like this.
They're trying again in Miami. They're trying to push the lid off.
But we know them. We have them paid. Name by name. Connection by connection.
And then the old fashioned gentleman from New England. The one the big bosses couldn't figure out.
They're not going to like what Senator Toby says. Well, the crime picture has been made clear across the country.
If local authorities do not do that job in prosecute, Brandon was Dehrlicks. Put them on the spot by an outrage public opinion.
They never liked what Steve Guthrie said. And according to someone's plans, he shouldn't even be talking to us tonight.
Just last week, my restaurant was bombed about 11.25. I helped expose this syndicate.
Boys, you didn't get me this time. You won't get me next time because the people are going to get you.
They talked this way, ladies and gentlemen, because the heat's on. The heat's off.
Here's a sort of weather forecast for these boys we're talking about from the honorable Senator Herbert O'Connor of the Crime Committee's new chairman.
We're going ahead. Yes, we're going after narcotics. After the crime networks, which were necessarily bypassed because of time.
And I may say, Dan, that here is the weather prediction. It's going to be hot. And the boys may as well get out of town because they're going to be a relentless pursuit of them.
Ladies and gentlemen, we the people are sending out several memos tonight. Memos to a certain sheriff in the southern state to a mobster facing indictment in Illinois.
To a certain well-connected gentleman from Missouri. And gentlemen, you might just as well listen because there's no place for you to hide.
It's a memo for we the people on Keyfover Plus 60 days right after this message from the Gulf oil companies.
Well, a lot of you folks are probably packing for that weekend trip right now. But hey, watch out. Just look who's planning to go along with you.
Yes, whether at home or away. Here's the fellow who just can't seem to stay away from you. What to do about those plaguing flies and mosquitoes? Here's the answer.
Take along a Gulf spray aerosol bomb. It's the quick easy way to really knock these insect pests into a loop. With the fast acting Gulf spray bomb, all you have to do is push a button and out comes a fine mist of powerful spray.
The Gulf spray bomb is Gulf super powered insect killer that clears the room of flies and mosquitoes in a matter of minutes. And it's pleasant to use too. No lingering after odor.
And of course a compact Gulf spray bomb takes up a little room. It's handy to pack easy to store. Each Gulf spray bomb contains enough powerful insecticide to treat the average size room 60 times.
And yet the usual price is only $1.45. So don't be caught off guard. Before you hear that warning buzz, get a handy compact Gulf spray aerosol bomb at your favorite store or Gulf dealers.
The Crime Committee got the facts and it was up to the cities and states to close down on the syndicates big and little. Now you close down by the thing they scorn the law of the land. You close down by the convening of people like you and me into special grand juries. Let's look at the record.
Main 163 indictment, an honest governor accruating newspaper editor at the prosecutor working secretly on what they call the project of faith Florida 70 indictments but no convictions Illinois 23 indictments, three officials out of office and evidence of 35 criminal syndicates operating in the state. Cleveland and Detroit, three indictments each growing out of the key parlor hearings Louisiana 12 indictments.
Three convictions are local enforcement officials Missouri little court action is a big development just the same the racing wire is servicing the bookies are shut down out there and Mr. James Cameron a carol the camera shy bookie is having trouble with a team and but now along with all these figures take a look at this figure here.
We the people perhaps the most important number of the week number two nine four two nine newly arrived prisoner at the state penitentiary.
Pinton new Jersey Joseph do to alias Joe at Donness Joe Donness one of America's top crime overlords real big game the first really big racketeer bag since these crime hearings and the man who got him for you is deputy attorney general Nelson Stemler of the state of New Jersey.
Mr. Attorney General are great thanks from we the people and congratulations to you sir thanks Dan Joe Donness should have been in jail a long time ago he was supposed to be part of murder incorporated and I think was our top families are we don't deserve a pen on the back
necessarily governor order us to do a job and we did it well gentlemen of the Senate crime commission you spotlighted this link between a Donness in New Jersey
and the big books in New York you have any questions at all yes I have a question Mr. Stemler in common with many people across the country I bet a sense of outrage at these false reports that the deal was made with Joe at Donness and the authorities in New Jersey we know it's a lie or the best evidence is that Joe is known
to the state prison crack down on that were you senator there was no deal well there never was any part of the deal we had no intention of making a deal it was our intent to send
to Donness to jail on the start the standard is one question I might ask you I think the public would be interested in knowing whether you can tell us how it was that a Donness with all his assurance was able to flurry so long
I think that's simple senator official laxity it was a let down in the bars of enforcement well Mr. Stemler of course you and I worked together for a long time and I certainly congratulate you upon
conducting Joe Donness it doesn't track down on him at least to other syndicates that operate in New Jersey and New York in this section
yes senator you have given us an awful lot of help and we have a lot of information about our own it's our intent that we can send an awful lot of Joe's friends down to stay with him for a while
that's good for Missouri loves company doesn't it here does senator New Jersey once called the garden state and now a place where the boys once were in clover now the
convictions just keep mounting and mounting well that's just one name out of the crime committees report of Donness alias dodo alias 29429 thanks to these gentlemen seated with us this evening
and there were other names out of the Damon R onion world but not nearly so endearing there was greasy thumb that's a name the enforcer also a name and another name the king king
of the state of New Jersey he was the rather well to do sheriff of Jefferson parish in Louisiana one time private playground for the biggest syndicate a senator
O'Connor do you remember what the name king fancy once meant to you sir oh yes I remember it very well indeed it meant a parish yes a parish has corrupt as any in America
it meant also a place where gambling could run almost anything it touched and senator to be I wonder sir do you remember your personal feelings toward this
king clancy when you first heard about him very clearly he came before us in that committee room in Washington and as I looked at the men
there nothing king like about him at all the nearest to it I'd call him a royal flush he said down before us and he began to question him
and I said why don't you close these things up because he said I couldn't be elected if I did and I said what a tragedy that would be
well now senators you might be interested in a little bit of a follow up on the king clancy story fortunately with us this evening we have the reverend Dana Dawson Jr. of the one of the parishes down there in Louisiana
and I think you might be interested in king clancy after 60 days of the key poverty and go ahead sir senators I know clancy well once he came to see me
with a gambler who offered to build a new Sunday school building if I would stop getting after the gamblers I didn't stop he came back again after his trip to Washington he came to see me and said that he was ashamed of what had happened
but he would like for us to support him and that he would stop gambling in Jefferson fair senators I believe that we have many people who are guilty in this crime situation
I believe that we should welcome these people if they want to make a new start we welcome the man that many people call king clancy and he has cleaned up Jefferson Parish
and we will probably support him if he wishes to want run for re-election we don't condone what he did in the past we do believe that your hearings brought him to his senses
Reverend Dawson I was in New Orleans recently and I found that king clancy was keeping the promise that he made our committee and was adamantly keeping the places close in Jefferson Parish
but what's the situation in the rest of the state of New York state of Louisiana?
I know that gambling is still big in St. Bernard Parish and things are running wide open along the Mississippi Gulf Coast
and I was Senator Toby you took exception to King clancy do you feel any differently toward him now that you've heard of his reform sir
That was chapter one 30 minutes later in our career room we began to examine him with his personal affairs and his family
spoke about his children asked about them and his grandchildren what they would think about knowing a grandfather and father in this business and the man was touched
and the tears came into his eyes and that man said I'll go out now on telephone and close those places and you did
when he comes back I said but so you said that you couldn't be re-elected unless you kept the molten what will happen next election I believe I'll be re-elected and I believe he will be
Well certainly the Reverend Dawson bears that out with his report from Louisiana
Reverend Dawson may I just ask a question there one of the greatest problems in the country as we found it was concerning the mafia
I was wondering whether you still feel they're entrenched in Louisiana I have heard that it is but we believe that clancy is doing a good job in our state as well as other officials
gentlemen it all sums up to an awful lot of figures behind us on the board but behind the figures investigations a mounting list and behind the figures of course always people
average people who might have played cozy and stayed out of it but as it turned out very brave people who talk like this tonight's most interested party that woman who must remain anonymous behind the screen
I hear some figures Mr. Seymour they sound pretty good I'd like to ask Senator Keafar for a question of course please go ahead
Senator you know what I went through you know that I've been threatening from my city you've made some headlines some of the big brackets are closed but some are still going on with the help of the politician
Senator is it worth it what I did is a threat of my of me and my children worth it
I think it is madam the picture isn't perfect but there's nothing wrong with the heart of the American people and now that they know the facts I think that they're making it rather unhealthy for a lot of the criminals and gangsters to be around
the crime situation in the country is certainly getting better and I believe this public interest is going to be sustained
Senator I've heard it's been that the people will forget
well after hearing you I'm sure that millions of Americans will be looking at this show tonight will not forget and will carry on
Can I talk to them? Yes please do
Please in all your homes in cities with figures on four boards don't forget
No don't forget for that woman who can't fight back and for a gentleman who can fight back but who's a target nonetheless
I want to Senator O'Connor do you remember that gentleman seated over there to your right? Yes I remember Cher Cuttry
a former sheriff of Dallas County in the great state of Texas he was one of the good officials he is as you remember in our report
it might be interesting to note in passing Dan that the Chicago syndicate tried to bribe him to open up Dallas for the rackets several years ago
but he trapped them with the recording of the offer and one man went to jail incidentally
Yes indeed he's in the report all right he helped trace the syndicate lengths from Chicago to Dallas
Now I want you to listen to him go ahead Mr. Guthrie please I'm out of office now I own two restaurants
in case anyone wonders where I got the money to open the restaurants I'll show them the market it's
I was working late in one of my places last week while I had usually stayed a little later I left early this night
and I guess I owe it my life to this presence of mine of leaving a little early because the bomb dropped on the place
and it caused $25,000 damage the bomb was thrown on the place from the side
if you'd stayed much longer they might have gotten you Mr. Guthrie I feel so yes sir
Well gentlemen he talked and as the lady behind the screen says the underworld doesn't seem to forget I wonder if you have any questions at all
Senator keep on. Mr. Guthrie I remember your work very well and also that of Lieutenant George Butler who worked with you
and it's been very effective and highly commendable but what are you going to do now Mr. Guthrie?
Well Senator I can't do but one thing and that's staying Dallas I'm not going to let a bunch of gangs just run me out of my home
Well that's the spirit. I'm going to stay right with them and I'll continue to talk and I know that if everyone else in the United States
who are listening to this program tonight will continue to talk will get rid of these people
God gave us the fairest country in the world we can't let these rats for it
Right. Well gentlemen it seems that the tough boys are really playing pretty hard with gentlemen who have aided you and me of we the people
Now they've been accused of stewging for big books and everything else but despite these figures that are coming in
we come to the realization that it's a pretty tough lead and to fight a pretty tough lead you have to have some pretty tough people
Well we've got two very honest gentlemen with us and two pretty tough ones right now
perhaps the toughest of a bunch. First I'd like to present to you from Chicago the fighting head of the anti-crime commission Mr. Vrgial Peterson
and from Miami Florida the doggy head of the Greater Miami Crime Commission Dan Sullivan
You know they're springing up all over the country these anti-crime commissions public spirited citizens
hire a very tough and honest crime specialist sometimes an XFBI gentleman like Mr. Sullivan over there from Miami
they're honest they get after the facts they're fearless and we have them now in New York City and in many other places
most of them are new they don't exactly know where they're going the oldest are the ones in Chicago and Miami
and believe me they know crimes are you take Dan Sullivan here he knows that another witness for Miami isn't here tonight
because he honestly fears for his life he knows Miami links with the underworld in New York
in New Orleans and in Philadelphia in Cleveland then I want you to listen to just a moment go ahead Mr. Sullivan please
in Greater Miami because of the key fault of hearings we got 70 indictments of rack of tears and public officials
unfortunately these indictments were quifed they were dismissed on legal technicalities
in Dade County Sheriff Jimmy Sullivan for instance my name's safe but I'd like to make it clear is no relative of mine
was put back in office by Governor Fulla Warren by hearing disclosed that he was not guilty of criminal charges
we're in a strange position in Miami and it's out of having every one of the same officials under home crime flurry
I'd say that our situation is such that it bears continuous watching
Senator Toby how does the report from Miami sound you sir?
Well I'd like to say that there are Sullivan's and Sullivan's one is Jimmy one variety and Dan's another and I crown him
as a judge before this audience I felt with many other people a sense of outrage over the fact that Sullivan was
who's back on the job this Jimmy the sheriff by Fulla Warren the governor and to make some of us wonder
whether or not the real answer was that Jimmy had something on the governor and this is a good pro pro in return
I don't know but it's been suggested
Well Senator Keith Fawber I wonder if you had any questions you'd like to ask of this authority from the state of Florida sir
Dan Sullivan and his group are one of the best in the country they've shown tremendous courage
and I know that isn't it true Dan that your people are sticking right with this and are going to see it through
and are determined to clean up Florida and make it a more decent place to wish to live
Well we'll see it through sir I'll take to the finish
I believe that we have tremendous popular support
I guess the settlement just on that point go ahead and the spotlight is still on Florida incidentally
and while it's a great state and fine people in it nevertheless if there are exceptions they must be exposed
I'd like to ask Mr. Sullivan whether the connections between the time in Florida with that of other states has been kept after
and whether the interstate facilities for criminal activities also being given attention
Certainly Senator York to many did a tremendous job down there and I think one of the most significant things that the committee did
was it was it wasn't exposing the links interstate links of crime between Miami and Chicago
Possibly that phase of the investigation could be pursued further
Well now let's hear from the state of Illinois we have a great authority on crime with us this evening
Mr. Burjal Peterson of Chicago the head of the Anti-Crime Commission out there
Mr. Peterson how's the crime fight going in state of Illinois?
Well in Illinois we're still fighting indictments have been returned against some of our biggest policy operators and racketeers
and indictment has been returned against one of our state representatives
you may remember last fall Captain Dan Gilbert who has been dubbed the world's richest cop attempted to run for sheriff
and he was defeated Captain Tom Harrison the police captain has been suspended and was fired by the Civil Service Commission
and other police officials who as well it could not be satisfactorily explained our under investigation
Well not sir if the heat is on like that how are these big boys making a living these days
Well of course the syndicate always has to have one big operation
Around Chicago at the present time it's Ralph's place
This is a million dollar operation
Crap's, roulette and that sort of thing for the biggest mobsters of Chicago operate this operation
but I think of even greater importance than that is the fact that the Capone syndicate members today are entering new legitimate businesses
one in particular one of the largest in the state of Illinois they've recently entered
Well Mr. Peterson that to me presents a very grave danger to the people of this country
when the criminal interests take their real gotten gains and put them into legitimate business
something to think about what is the business you had referenced to
This business Senator Toby is one which I can't properly mention at this time
we place the facts into the hands of the state officials they're investigating it
we have the cooperation at the present time of some of the big legitimate business men involved
and I thoroughly agree with you however that that is one of the most insidious influences of the organized crime problem
next perhaps to its influence on government
Gentlemen there is so much of you excuse me Senator Conner to this picture that we'd like to cover in the short time a lot of it to us tonight
Gamblers that are touched and haven't been touched and through it all
we have to bear in mind that one lady behind our screen the lady who actually talked
Madam witness you've heard this you've heard some of the gentlemen who are actively fighting crime in the country
I wonder what you think now it sounds like a lot of people I mean official are trying I'm glad to know there are people
like Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Peterson I wish there was a man like that in my city
but all these things are big facts out of a man's world aren't there other women like me who are fighting to protect their streets and their family
well yes indeed there is one and we're honored to have her with us tonight
her name is Mrs. Russell T Griffith of Gary Indiana she's an average woman just like you
but because of what happened in Gary believe me other women don't have to testify behind screens
I want you to listen to her Mrs. Griffith go ahead please
In 1949 Gary was one of America's black and corrupt cities
vice was our second largest industry the policy runners the creepers the scratch sheets were all over the city
when March the third a high school teacher named Mary Chiever was murdered it was an unsolved murder
the eighth since the beginning of the year but because of that murder the women of Gary were galvanized into action
they marched on city hall they organized they formed their own crime commission was some help from
Virgil Peterson of Chicago they fought dirt and filth up and down the line
well Mrs. Griffith women have organized before today three years later what are the results?
the result is that we voted a reformed prosecutor in the office we can vote down to anyone we want to
we have cleaned up Gary we come from all religions and all colors we are everybody and we cleaned up our city
well madam witness behind our screen unfortunately you had to remain anonymous tonight but how's that for a port on what we the women are doing?
thank God I mean that thank God
well our senators I have just one final question I'd like to ask unfortunately we only have a few more moments on the air
Senator O'Connor you are now the head of the crime commission what can we the people look forward to in this constant fight against crime?
well Dan our intention is to go forward we have information that the same problem has been so accurately depicted here today exists in many of the average
cities the cities of America and our program is to turn the spotlight on them and to expose conditions as they are so that decent people can take up this fight
Senator Keith Lover do you have anything to answer?
yes Mr. Seymour Mrs. Guthrie has shown what the people can do I believe the people are moving against this cartel of crime
it's great to see men like the gentlemen we have here who are prosecuting and operating these crime committed
therein lies the answer and the American people are going to win this fight
Senator Toby we call for a great moral awakening all across this country and remember people of America
there's nothing to matter with our country that character will not solve we the people speak
now ladies and gentlemen I'd like you to take just a moment to listen to Terry O' Sullivan talk about vacation time Terry go ahead
folks here's a way to get a lot more fun out of driving this summer fill up with gulf no-nots the summer grade gasoline especially designed to resist evaporation
installing caused by hot weather vapor lock knocking and pinging in your engine no-nots is the summer grade gasoline that defies hot weather
get gulf no-nots at your gulf dealers for the life of your car go gulf
nbc television
you